Add setTagStale method for background revalidate (#82481)
vercel/next.js: docs/01-app/03-api-reference/04-functions/setTagStale.mdx

---
title: setTagStale
description: API Reference for the setTagStale function.
---

`setTagStale` allows you to mark [cached data](/docs/app/guides/caching) as stale for specific cache tags without immediately invalidating it.

## Usage

`setTagStale` can be called in Server Functions and Route Handlers.

`setTagStale` cannot be called in Client Components or Middleware, as it only works in server environments.

> > **Good to know**: Unlike [`revalidateTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag), `setTagStale` marks data as stale but preserves the existing timestamp under an `expire` field in the tag manifest. This allows for more granular cache control where data can be marked stale without immediate invalidation.

Reviewer: Should update this to clarify what stale means without discussing manifest changes

## Parameters

```tsx
setTagStale(tags: string | string[]): void;
```

- `tags`: A string or array of strings representing the cache tags associated with the data you want to mark as stale. Each tag must not exceed 256 characters and values are case-sensitive.

> You can add tags to `fetch` as follows:

Reviewer: Can probably delete this section

```tsx
fetch(url, { next: { tags: [...] } });
```

## Returns

`setTagStale` does not return a value.

## Relationship with `revalidateTag`

`setTagStale` complements [`revalidateTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag) by providing more granular cache control:

> - `setTagStale` marks data as stale while preserving the original timestamp under an `expire` field

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- `setTagStale` marks data as stale while preserving the original cache entry until the new data is updated, rather than purging the underlying cache entry.
```

> - `revalidateTag` uses the `expire` timestamp (if present) for invalidation checks instead of the stale timestamp

Reviewer: Seems unnecessary

export default async function markContentStale() {
  // Mark multiple content types as stale
  setTagStale(['posts', 'users', 'comments'])
}
```

```js filename="app/actions.js" switcher
'use server'

import { setTagStale } from 'next/cache'

export default async function markContentStale() {
  // Mark multiple content types as stale
  setTagStale(['posts', 'users', 'comments'])
}
```

### Route Handler

```ts filename="app/api/mark-stale/route.ts" switcher
import { setTagStale } from 'next/cache'

export async function POST(request: Request) {
  const { tags } = await request.json()

  setTagStale(tags)

  return Response.json({ message: 'Tags marked as stale' })
}
```

```js filename="app/api/mark-stale/route.js" switcher
import { setTagStale } from 'next/cache'

export async function POST(request) {
  const { tags } = await request.json()

  setTagStale(tags)

  return Response.json({ message: 'Tags marked as stale' })
}
```

### Combined with revalidateTag

```ts filename="app/actions.ts" switcher
'use server'

import { setTagStale, revalidateTag } from 'next/cache'

export async function updatePost() {
  // First mark as stale
  setTagStale('posts')

>   // Later, fully invalidate when ready

Reviewer: Seems like we can delete this

---

> title: setTagStale

Reviewer 2: Bikeshed the name here - how about one of these?
- `revalidateTagStale('mytag')`
- `revalidateTag('mytag', { stale: true })`?

Have we thought about the relationship to stale-if-error?

cc @gnoff

Author: We're trying to fix the naming of `revalidate` as it's a verb but this doesn't actually kick off a revalidation only updates the tag for the next visit.

description: API Reference for the setTagStale function.
---

`setTagStale` allows you to mark a cache tag and any pages that use that tag as stale for background revalidation on the next request, instead of the blocking revalidation used by [`revalidateTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag).

## Usage

`setTagStale` can be called in Server Functions and Route Handlers.

`setTagStale` cannot be called in Client Components or Middleware, as it only works in server environments.

> **Good to know**: Unlike [`revalidateTag`](/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag) which performs blocking revalidation, `setTagStale` marks tags for background revalidation that occurs on the next request. This provides better performance by avoiding blocking operations during user requests.

## Parameters

```tsx
setTagStale(tags: string | string[]): void;
```

> - `tags`: A string or array of strings representing the cache tags associated with the data you want to mark as stale. Each tag must not exceed 256 characters and values are case-sensitive.

Reviewer 2: maximum 256 characters per tag, but is there a maximum number of tags in the array?

cc @lubakravche

Author: This is the same rules as the existing `revalidateTag` function https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/functions/revalidateTag#parameters

Reviewer 3: We also have the `cacheTag` function, https://nextjs.org/docs/app/api-reference/functions/cacheTag, and the signature of that one is `cacheTag(...tags:string[])` - 

Should we align with that one? The example below would look a bit weird though 🤔 :

```ts
  const { tags } = await request.json()

  setTagStale(...tags)
```
